MATH 340 / 640. Probability Theory for Data Science and Statistics. 4 hr.; 4 cr. Prereq.:
241. Coreq.: MATH 201 and 231. Convolutions, multivariate transformation of variables, the
poisson process, beta, logistic, laplace, Weibull distributions, characteristic functions, 
central limit theorem, Cochran's Theorem, the multivariate normal, chi-squared, T, F, 
Cauchy distributions, vector random variables, covariance matrices, multinomial, 
multivariate normal, order statistics, law of large numbers, famous inequalities, convergence 
in distribution and probability, laws of large numbers, Slutsky's Theorem, optimization 
including stochastic gradient descent. Probability computation using modern software.
Special topics. Not open to students who are taking or who have received credit for MATH
340. Students cannot receive credit for more both: MATH 340, and 640. Fall, Spring.

MATH 241. Introduction to Probability and
Mathematical Statistics. 3 hr.; 3 cr. Prereq. or
coreq.: 143 or 152. An introduction to the basic concepts
and techniques of probability and statistics with an
emphasis on applications. Topics to be covered include
the axioms of probability, combinatorial methods,
conditional probability, discrete and continuous random
variables and distributions, expectations, confidence
interval estimations, and tests of hypotheses using the
normal, t-, and chi-square distributions. Students taking
this course may not subsequently receive credit for
MATH 114, except by permission of the chair. Not open
to students who are taking or who have received credit
for MATH 611. Fall, Spring (MQR)

MATH 231. Linear Algebra I. 4 hr.; 4 cr. Prereq.:
One semester of calculus. An introduction to linear
algebra with emphasis on techniques and applications.
Topics to be covered include solutions of systems of
linear equations, vector spaces, bases and dimension,
linear transformations, matrix algebra, determinants,
eigenvalues, and inner products. Not open to students
who are enrolled in or who have completed MATH 237.
Fall, Spring (MQR)

MATH 201. Multivariable Calculus. 4 hr.; 4 cr.
Prereq.: MATH 143 or 152. A continuation of the
work of MATH 143 or 152. The topics include polar
coordinates, vectors, solid analytic geometry, vector-valued
functions, double and triple integrals, functions
of several variables, partial derivatives. Wherever
possible, applications are made to problems of geometry
and physics. Not open to students who are taking or who
have passed MATH 132 (unless permission of the chair
is obtained). Fall, Spring (MQR)







